# RSpec Testing
##BDD - Behavior Driven Development
#Learing Objectives:

* <h3> Understand BDD development flow</h3>
* <h3> Install and configure RSpec</h3>
* <h3> Understand basic RSpec blocks: describe, context, it</h3>
* <h3> Understand how to write RSpec tests</h3>
* <h3> Understand how to run RSpec tests</h3>
* <h3> Understand how to make list of attributes and behaviors</h3>
* <h3> Understand the Before and After blocks for test setup.</h3>

## Behavior Driven Development Flow:
### Mantra: Red, Green, Refactor
*  <h3> "Red" => write test, run test, test fails</h3>
*  <h3>"Green" => write just enough code to make it pass</h3>
*  <h3> "Refactor" => look for ways to improve your code</h3>

## RSpec Testing Syntax Structure:
*  <h3> describe blocks</h3>
*  <h3> context block (optional)</h3>
*  <h3> it blocks</h3>


#### Sample code
	describe "Object" do
	  context "when created" do
	    it "has an attribute X" do
	      test code
	    end
	    it "has an attribute Y" do
	      test code
	    end
	  end
	end


	describe "Object when created" do
	  it "has an attribute X" do
	    test code
	  end

	  it "has an attribute Y" do
	    test code
	  end
	end


## Installation
	$ gem install rspec
	$ rspec --v
	$ rspec --help

### Go to your working folder
	$ rspec --init
		create spec/spec_helper.rb
		create .rspec

### Edit .rspec ( use: "ls -a" to see the dot files)
#### .rspec:
	--color
	--format documentation

### Move to the newly created "spec" directory
	$ cd spec
### Review spec_helper.rb
* <h3> spec_helper.rb makes the RSpec tests are run in a random order.</h3>


		$ cd spec
		$ cat spec_helper.rb

* <h3>spec_helper.rb:</h3>

		# This file was generated by the `rspec --init` command. Conventionally, all
		# specs live under a `spec` directory, which RSpec adds to the `$LOAD_PATH`.
		# Require this file using `require "spec_helper"` to ensure that it is only
		# loaded once.
		#
		# See http://rubydoc.info/gems/rspec-core/RSpec/Core/Configuration
		RSpec.configure do |config|
			config.treat_symbols_as_metadata_keys_with_true_values = true
			config.run_all_when_everything_filtered = true
			config.filter_run :focus

			# Run specs in random order to surface order dependencies. If you find an
			# order dependency and want to debug it, you can fix the order by providing
			# the seed, which is printed after each run.
			#     --seed 1234
			config.order = 'random'
		end



## Employee Code Along
### Let's design an Employee class:
* <h3>What attributes and behaviors should our Employee object have?</h3>

### Create two files: employee.rb and employee_spec.rb
#### employee_spec.rb:
	require 'employee'
	require 'spec_helper'

	describe Employee do

	  employee = Employee.new("YourName")

	  it "has a name " do
	  	employee.name.should eq("YourName")

	  	# this syntax also works
	  	# employee.name.should == "YourName"
	  end
	end

#### employee.rb

	class Employee

		def initialize()

		end

	end

## Run RSpec Test
* <h3> From the directory you ran $ rspec --init
* <h3> Run $ rspec spec/employee_spec.rb

## Special blocks: Before & After
* <h3> Due to the random order of tests, you can't rely on the conditions of one test to setting up the other. </h3>
* <h3> Eliminate the "order dependencies".</h3>
* <h3> Before block runs before each test</h3>
* <h3> After block runs after each test</h3>










